Our societies have been martyred and destroyed by neoliberalism.
So much so that they've crumbled away... and that in this collapse
of everything, a gigantic doubt has spread,
an incredible despise against everything: judges, police officers, journalists,
political leaders. The whole country seems to be brewing an enormous
ousting, which will take place.
And our duty, our role
is to give it a positive,
constructive, peaceful
and democratic outcome.
And so now, you must prepare
to come for the 18th of March.
Watch it and listen well folks.
The 18th of March is a way for us to also make the election campaign
a premise of the civic Revolution that we want.
If you are many and they see you
asking for the 6th Republic and the abolition
of the presidential monarchy—you understand?!—
then it ceases to be
an abstract slogan on which people argue while it doesn't cost them anything:
everyone can say "6th Republic, why not?"
What matters is the revolutionary act that
the convocation of a National Assembly will represent.
It is not me and my friends who gather in an office
to come out at you with a bill as did General de Gaulle with
Michel Debré. A few of them wrote a text and then said to the people "It's either yes or no and there's no need to discuss."
That is not the way to do it.
Not because we have the taste
for bickering, but because the whole point is that by taking up
this issue, the French people is reshaping itself.
Come, on the 18th of March,
any way you can, to Paris,
to demand the first of all the changes that the nation needs, to refound and rebuild between all its people
a bond that is the only one that is worth: the political bond, the bond of a New Constitution, the bond which ends the presidential monarchy
and the absurd kinglets
with which we are afflicted.